### Remove all possible reminders

You need to get rid of everything that reminds you of your ex – at least until you’ve fully recovered.

Not only seeing your ex will trigger an intense, visceral emotional reaction – things like pictures, songs and maybe even certain locations, can do the same.

Helen Fisher has done research on this topic. She showed that when showing heartbroken individuals mere pictures of their beloveds their emotional circuitry would light up like fireworks.

There is an important reality here.

Being reminded of your ex-girlfriend in any shape or form will trigger the memories and emotions associated with her.

The antidote is simple, remove any chance of being reminded of her from your daily existence. Avoid places where you might walk in to her, or might be reminded of her.

Don’t leave pictures on your computer and don’t stay friends on Facebook. Don’t rely on self-discipline to stop yourself from indulging in reminiscing. Prepare yourself for your future weaker you. You don’t want to hear about her moving on, you want to keep the focus on yourself.

- Call up your breakup buddy and have him, or another friend, help you gather all the stuff belonging to your ex-girlfriend or that reminds you of her.
- Have your friend hold on to all the stuff that reminds you of her, and have him give back all the stuff that belongs to her.
- Prepare yourself for your future weakness. Do not rely on self discipline. 

#### Action Steps

1. Remove your ex from all social media accounts
2. Remove all pictures, videos and digital reminders you have of your ex from your computer and/or websites you frequent
3. Remove all physical items that remind you of your ex from your living quarters
4. Remove all other possible reminders from all other possible areas!
5. Memorize the last two digits of her phone number (so you recognize when she is calling you) and delete it.
6. Celebrate the successful completion of all the above!