### Does this change anything about your current situation?

The following is a story about an insight I had during a setback I experienced which has stayed with me ever since.

It was about half a year after my breakup, and the wound was still far from healing. I made the classic -- and deadly -- mistake of looking at my ex-girlfriend's facebook profile. 

We had been on a break when she slept with another guy. I suspected they were together, but I purposefully avoided people, places or facebook pages where I could be confronted with the reality.

I went to her facebook page and found out that she was now with this guy in an official Facebook relationship. Seeing it in writing, in official Facebook writing was excruciating.

I felt a deep, primordial jolt of pain from my heart throughout my entire body. All of a sudden all the progress I had made up until now seemed like a joke. It seemed as if I was kidding myself, holding up a facade. For what? In that moment I still felt woefully incomplete.

Luckily I had a friend I could talk to. My man Wiemer. Wiemer had gone through an excruciating breakup himself and he had recovered remarkably well. I had seen him go from being completely broken to being radiant, caring and outgoing once again.

I called Wiemer up on Skype -- in tears at this point. I told him what had happened. How I now had finally found out that they were officially together.

What he told me after that felt like a breath of fresh air giving me a benevolent slap in the face. "Does this change anything about your current situation?" he asked. I thought for a second, the tears suspended on my cheeks, "No" I answered, "It doesn’t.”

And with that, the pain that had overwhelmed me slid off my shoulders. I had been wilfully keeping myself ignorant of my ex-girlfriend's life to protect myself. Hearing this news had definitely hurt, but it changed absolutely nothing. 

When a new piece of information upsets you. Ask yourself: Does this change anything about my current situation?