
## Reaching your tipping point

You may be reading this and still very much feel in love with your ex-girlfriend. There may have been many signs that would indicate that the relationship is over and she wants nothing to do with you.

Yet you cannot let go. You understand intellectually that it's just chemicals gushing through your brain, but something makes it more powerful than that. Your subjective truth is more powerful than the objective truth.

So you continue to pursue her. You continue to initiate contact. You look at her pictures on Facebook. You attempt to reconnect and rekindle the flame that was lost.

You try no contact, but you remain worried about driving her away, so you break it.

You end up repeatedly tearing open the same old wounds, never allowing them to heal.

Part of you wants to move on, but a larger, stronger, part of you refuses to. It’s protesting. It's holding on. 

I can only help you once that that part of you that wants to move on has enough resolve, enough clarity and enough determination to say: enough is enough. 

In order to start to recover, you must reach your tipping point. 

Your tipping point is the point you reach when you realize that you cannot continue to put yourself through this pain. It is the moment you realize that no one person is worth all this pain.

Your tipping point is also the point at which you *decide* that you, and you alone, are responsible for your own happiness. It is not up to others or one single person to provide you with happiness. You derive happiness by taking responsibility, not by  giving it away.