# Dealing with pain & obsessive thoughts

The reality is that although we often attribute our misery to external circumstances — misery is a state we are 100% responsible for creating in our own minds. 

That’s not to say it’s not understandable that you feel miserable when your long-term partner ends the relationship, seemingly out of the blue. We’re wired to feel miserable, and it’s perfectly okay that you do.

But at the same time we also have the capacity to become aware of what we feel and to consciously surrender to it completely. Paradoxically, something magical happens when one does so: the pain that was causing you misery passes through you without resistance. It loses its power.

I’m not talking about a cure for sadness, but more like a new way to relate to your pain.

The Tibetan Book of Living and Dying has a wonderful line in it.

> Whatever you do, don’t try to escape from your pain, but be with it. 

Because the attempt to escape from pain is what creates more pain.

There are several strategies that can help you deal with the difficulties that arise after a breakup while ensuring we _stay with_ our pain.

1. **Self-expression**: Different forms of self-expression such as letter writing, journaling, poetry, art, music, etc. can help you vent emotions. Find out what works for you.
2. **Mindful meditation**: The process of mindful meditation can help you calm your anxiety, snap out of an emotional trance and give you insight into your suffering that can help you dissolve it.
3. **Reflection**: By examining your thoughts and emotions as a compassionate observer you can uncover the underlying needs you have and address them head-on.
4. **Social bonding**: Being around family and friends will activate all your neural pathways associated with bonding.

In this chapter we will learn how to put them to use to process your painful thoughts and feelings.