## The power of shared experience

Not only is heartache universal, it is timeless. Not only is the pain you feel an emotion that humans feel, and express, across the globe. It is also an experience that was felt by our ancestors and will be felt by our descendants. 

Even though your situation is unique, and no one will understand *exactly* what it is you're feeling, the pain of having loved and lost is shared among millions of other souls, past and present. 

It is possible to find comfort in that realization because you are in fact not alone.

In this book you will hear from some of them. Some of them ancient, some of them present. But through our sorrow we are all connected.

### Some experiences being shared

#### Being left for another

> My ex is in my dreams, my fantasies, my nightmares... I know it's possible. My 15 yr marriage ended in her having an affair 4 yrs ago and while I barely survived, I survived. I just am finding it hard to work, be a dad, or leave my house. Depression is a battle I have fought my whole life and it just exacerbates it when something like this happens. I am eating well, exercising, I just need some help to get over the pain that makes my heart skip and brings tears to my eyes.
> — _Chris from Quesnel, Canada _

#### Regretting a breakup

> Now i feel so devastated. I want her back, but myself wants me to be single. I love her so much but I didn’t know why I want to be alone. I feel so lost. I dont know how to deal with this. I love her so much. I don’t understand myself all I know is I got Hurt wounded and strenghtless. I miss her so much and ive got nothing to do with it but to cry. Please help me. Before i totally lost my life. I’m begging for your words, Jesse. God bless. Hoping for your response.
> — _Christian from the Philippines_

#### She moves on quickly

> After a few months, she decides to break up with me - stating that she wants to be alone. After two days, she starts a relationship with a colleague of ours. I see them everyday at work. And I still live together with her.
> 
> These are...just a few lines, but I cannot imagine an outcome worse than this. I am under meds and I am seeing a counsellor, but this is hurting like hell and I see no way out. I have fits of rage, sadness, despair, completely at random during the day - even at work. It's been weeks now. She still says she cares for me and she spends evening with me cuddled up watching movies.
> 
> — _Desann from Huntingdon, UK_