
### Your suffering is universal and timeless

Even though you likely feel alone and not understood in your pain, it can be helpful and comforting to know that in fact love, and the heartache associated with the ending of a romantic relationship or the agony of unrequited love is a universal and timeless experience.

> Even in our sleep, pain which cannot forget falls drop by drop upon the heart, until, in our own despair, against our will, comes wisdom through the awful grace of God. _— Aeschylus_

Researchers have found that love is a human phenomenon that is displayed by every human tribe ever investigated across the globe.

No only that, love is also a phenomenon that we see goes back in human history as far back as we have material evidence.

So you are not alone. In fact, in many ways you are now connected to more people than you ever were before. What you are going through goes through the heart of the human experience. 

We are built to love, and we are built to hurt when something gets in its way. 

> Fires run through my body—the pain of loving you. Pain runs through my body with the fires of my love for you. Sickness wanders my body with my love for you. Pain like a boil about to burst with my love for you. Consumed by fire with my love for you. I remember what you said to me. I am thinking of your love for me. I am torn by your love for me. Pain and more pain. Where are you going with my love? I’m told you will go from here. I am told you will leave me here. My body is numb with grief. Remember what I’ve said, my love. Goodbye, my love, goodbye.
> — _Anonymous Kwakiutl Indian of Southern Alaska (1896)_