### Accept whatever it is you’re feeling

Throughout this process you will feel a wide range of emotions. Some will be more overwhelming than others and some will be less pleasant than others.

Our goal is to truly feel these emotions and learn the lessons they  are here to teach us. To accomplish that we must strive to acknowledge our emotions when they occur. It is far too easy to lose awareness, and get caught up in the emotions themselves or in our reactions to them.

When we forget or refuse to acknowledge an emotion, we create more suffering for ourselves.

If we refuse to acknowledge we are angry, our anger will not wane and we will remain angry for a longer time.

We must peal back all the layers of the emotion we are experiencing.

During my most recent breakup, on multiple occasions I would feel anger swell up. I was aware of all the lessons and techniques I’ve tried to put into this book, but still I managed to lose my awareness and get lost in the trance.

I would be aware of the anger, but since I didn’t *want* to be angry, I told myself that I wasn’t going to be angry.

I only realized later that in doing so, I was making a value judgment towards the anger I was feeling. I felt it was a petty, primitive emotion that I shouldn’t be feeling.

I did not see this value judgment for what it was, another layer of emotion on top of the underlying anger. It caused me to suppress my anger and gave rise to a longer-term background level of frustration.

Only when I realized this, was I able to allow myself to feel angry and allow myself to feel the internal resistance I was experiencing to that anger.

Acknowledging your emotions becomes more difficult when there are multiple layers of emotions involved.

Whenever you catch yourself feeling something, bring your awareness to it. What is it you’re feeling? What label can you put on this feeling? Is there any judgment attached to it? If so, always shine the light of your awareness on the judgment. What label can you put on it?