### Become a social person

When chronic pain continues over time you become more introverted, develop more social anxiety and tend to avoid social situations [@MacDonald2005](). This will negatively impact your mood, which will lead to even further isolation.

Even though there may be a strong desire for you to isolate yourself after your relationship has come to an end, becoming _more_ social will actually help to improve your mood.

You need to break this cycle if and when it occurs.

If you’re not a social person — then life has now presented you with an opportunity to practice. Put simply: building people skills will elevate your limbic bonds and make you feel better about yourself [@changebrainchangelife]().

If you’re an introvert, experiment with becoming more extraverted. Extraverts are less afraid of being rejected and hurt in social settings because they tend to believe that they are acceptable to other people [@MacDonald2005]().

Another benefit of becoming a more extraverted, social person is that you will experience more serendipity. Getting to know new people will allow you to make new connections and new opportunities tend to unfold themselves automatically.

After my breakup I made a conscious decision to become a more social, outgoing person. What made it easier for me is that I left my old social setting completely and went on a student exchange program to Spain for half a year. This made it easier to reinvent myself and experiment with a different personality without getting push back from those that knew me before.

