### Recruit a breakup buddy

One of the most important things you can do during your breakup recovery is recruiting a close friend, someone that you can always call, that knows your story and that knows your situation. I call it a breakup buddy.

My breakup buddy back in the day was a good friend, Herman. He knew my ex-girlfriend well and was just about as surprised as I was when my ex-girlfriend left me for another guy.

I didn't ask him to be on standby for me, but I think intuitively he knew it's what I needed. I remember calling him on several occasions when the sadness or the hopelessness would suddenly hit me. Tears would pour out of my eyes. I would lock myself up in my room and call up Herman.

He didn't have many answers, nor could he have. He was immensely helpful because he was there for me, was willing to listen and had experienced some sadness himself.

Just feeling listened to was often enough for me to muster another breath and to keep myself standing.

I remember instances where I would be overwhelmed with sadness. Tears would pour down my cheeks and I could barely muster the effort to keep myself standing. I would call Herman and pretty much just cry over the phone. No questions, no statements of problems. Just me weeping, and him consoling. 

Quickly the feeling of being listened to would sink in. The worst of the sadness would pass. It would be enough for me to regain some sense of control and to continue making steps in my recovery.

I advocate finding yourself a breakup buddy to help you get through the toughest times, but also, to help you heal later on. In later chapters there are several exercises that require you make statements out loud. Your breakup buddy is the ideal person to do this with as well.

#### What To Look For In a Breakup Buddy

To a certain extent you have to deal with the friends you have, but here are some desirable characteristics:

- **Honesty** — Someone that tells you the truth.
- **Experience** — Someone that's gone through a breakup himself.
- **Reliability** — Someone that will be there for you when he says he will.
- **Good listening skills** — Someone that will listen to your story attentively.