### Your ex-girlfriend is dead

It is very likely that your ex-girlfriend will be behaving unusually before and after your breakup. This can be incredibly painful and confusing. 

I remember my ex-girlfriend started going out more, hanging out with questionable people and generally behaving in ways I deemed irresponsible. 

Then, after we broke up, it felt as if she completely disregarded my feelings and was able to move on without looking back for a second. 

I was sad, mad and confused at the same time. I could not comprehend how the same sweet girl I loved could change like this and stab me in the back like this. 

It is around this period that I slowly came to the realization that that sweet girl I was remembering, and projecting onto her, was no longer there.

For all practical purposes my girlfriend was dead.

This girl I was desperately trying to get answers from, who visually still looked like my girlfriend, had nothing to do with her anymore.

This became apparent by what she said, what she did, who she hung out with. At the time I could not understand why -- which made it very difficult -- but I could see that this was not the same person.

Assuming she had died helped me in various ways.

- It allowed for me to mourn the loss of my girlfriend. 
- It allowed for me to differentiate between my ex-girlfriend and this new incarnation that I could not relate with.
- It gave me a certain level of closure. It helped me realize that the questions I had would not be answered. Only my ex-girlfriend could have conceivably answered them, and she no longer existed.
