
## Why you feel this way

So we’ve established that you’re likely going through a mix of intense emotions, many of which can be very painful. 

In order to alleviate some of the pain you’re feeling, it’s worth understanding why those emotions are there in first place.  By understanding their purpose, it will become easier to deal with them.

Our emotional circuitry evolved over the course of millions of years. Like any other biological system we carry around with us, it evolved because it helped our ancestors survive and reproduce. 

In the case of emotions, your brain provides you with positive feelings when you do something which helps you survive and reproduce. Conversely, it provides you with negative feelings so you avoid things which may jeopardise your odds of surviving and reproducing [@Breuning:2012ua]().

So given that you’re experiencing a lot of negative emotions right now, we can conclude that our million year old brain is telling us we’ve endangered our survival and reproductive odds.

In the next section we’ll explore why our brain interprets a breakup as such a big risk to our survival and reproduction.


### Why it hurts

Love elicits a stronger emotional response than any other. The reason for this, is that love plays an incredibly important role in our reproductive success.

Love and heartbreak are Nature’s carrot and stick that help guide our behaviour so we stay with our partners and care about their wellbeing long enough for us to rear a child together.

This is worth reiterating. Love is basically a survival mechanism which uses our brain’s reward mechanism to encourage pair-bonding (forming close, sexual relationships) and reproduction. Our brain’s reward mechanism motivates us to pursue certain goals by making us feel good when we achieve them and making us feel bad when we don’t.

One way we can be made to feel “bad” is through pain. Pain focuses our attention on significant events and promotes correction or avoidance of those events in the future. Heartbreak is a form of pain. It is a message telling us we need to correct or avoid whatever triggered it in the future.

Emotional pain, as opposed to physical pain, is caused by circumstances that negatively impact our social connections [@MacDonald2005](). Some examples are:

- The death of a genetic relatives or close associates
- Loss of status
- Sexual jealousy
- Childlessness
- Rape
- Inclusion in social groups

Emotional pain is analogous to physical pain. In fact, it uses the exact same neurological constellations as physical pain. The experience of emotional pain amounts to the same as that of physical pain.

This is because as social animals, social inclusion has always been key to our survival. Threats to our social connections are processed at a basic level as severe threats to our safety [@MacDonald2005]().

The reason for this is that our brains are thought to have evolved for life 150,000 years ago where we lived in groups of 100-150 roaming the African savanna. In these circumstances, rejection by the group would have meant near-certain death.

You’re in pain right now because you’re wired to maintain your relationships and avoid social exclusion. In our ancestral past, breaking up with your lover could have led to social exclusion, loss of status or the inability to reproduce. 

Each of those scenarios could have meant not being able to pass on your genes to the next generation or death. It makes sense, then, that we evolved to have survival mechanisms that protected us from those scenarios.

In essence, the pain you’re feeling is your million year old brain perceiving the breakup as a threat to your ability to survive and reproduce.

This survival mechanism may have been relevant and effective 150,000 years ago, but in modern day societies a breakup doesn’t have to lead to social exclusion or the inability to reproduce. Unfortunately there is no way to update your brain’s survival mechanisms. We can only learn how not to respond.


### Why it hurts a lot

In the previous section we learned that, essentially, a breakup is *supposed* to hurt. The pain we feel is Nature’s way of telling us that there is something here we need to avoid.

That being said, the pain can also be utterly debilitating. It can completely paralyze us, disrupt our eating and sleeping patterns and remove all the joy from our lives. 

Surely there can’t be any added benefit there for our survival, can there?

And what about those who suffer heartbreak over and over again? Are they not picking up on Nature’s lesson? Or is something else going on?

It seems that while most will suffer some degree of pain following a breakup, especially one they didn’t initiate, some suffer more than others.

What do those that suffer more have in common? I believe it often has to do with an underlying, older wound, that never fully healed.

Those of us that are the most lost, the most hopeless and the most crushed after breaking up, have also been carrying the most pain from the past. Perhaps an adverse childhood, unavailable parents or a traumatic event taints our past. 

Invariably it is the older wound, of which we are unaware, that gets re-opened when we are hurt again. This opens the floodgates to pain — past and present.

Not only is an old wound re-opened, but the old wound is often what drives us into the arms of another wounded individuals. 

If the only affection we were shown by our parents was a mixture of love and pain, we will associate love with pain and seek out a similar mixture in our romantic lives. After all, it’s all we know  — and at least it’s familiar.

Nature, in the mean time, doesn’t *care* if your behavior is contributing to your misery. Nature doesn’t _want_ you to be happy. Nature doesn’t _want_ or _care_ at all. 

(It is perfectly possible for us to have evolved traits that, inadvertently make us miserable, yet happen to be highly effective reproductive strategies.)

Infants are incredibly impressionable as their brain develops. They are wired to absorb the world around them and understand under what rules the world they were born into operates.

I believe that in essence a child’s brain is wired to figure out how to stay alive. 

Infants are not only impressionable, they are also helpless, being completely dependent on the protection and care of their caregiver.

The infant will keep a close eye on their caregiver, experiencing pleasant emotions when the attention is returned and distress when ignored or abandoned. 

If its caregiver has unmet needs, the child will pick up on these and mould itself into the person that can fill those needs. Why? Because addressing the needs of your primary caregiver is an excellent way to make yourself useful and ensure you will be taken care of in the future. 

Thus, an infant will grow up adapting itself to fulfil any unmet needs it picks up in its primary caregiver. If the primary caregiver has many unmet needs, unfortunately, the child may grow up adapting in many ways.

Not only does a child have the plasticity to adapt to its parents’ needs, it will also emulate the way it is shown affection — or emulate the lack thereof. A child uses his own upbringing to determine: This is how you love someone. 

Drug addicts seek out drugs to self-medicate the pain they are unconsciously feeling, according to professor Gabor Maté. I believe that, similarly, some of us become addicted to love and we seek out relationships that help us self-medicate the pain we are unconsciously feeling. 

Those that suffer the most after a breakup are often also the ones that relied on the relationship the most to help lift them out of their pain.

Much in the same way as the addiction assumes control over the addict’s life, the relationship assumes control over the dumpee’s. Even after it has come to an end.

One of the main focuses of this book is to regain some of that control.

