## Helpful mindsets

Mindsets sometimes may seem like gimmicks, but they have the capacity to truly shift your thinking.

Imagine someone that can only see black, white and shades of grey. As a result of this infliction this person views everything to be bland and monotonous. Unbeknownst to him, he can train his eyes to view color, if only he put in the effort.

To complicate things, this person doesn’t view his limited perception of color as a problem. He believes the color spectrum available to him is plenty. The problem, he believes, is how the external world is so dull and boring. 

This is analogy for someone with a limited, negative mindset. You, unfortunately, are the guy seeing black and white at the moment, and it’s my privilege to show you the colors. 

What I want to emphasize is that when you teach yourself to adopt a positive mindset — it’s not just a gimmick. It’s not that you pretend to feel great while you’re dying on the inside. 

It’s important to realize that what we refer to as reality is in fact our subjective interpretation of reality. We see reality through our own colored lens. Luckily we can learn to change the colors of our lens to view reality in a more positive light.

The way we see things is the source of the way we think and the way we act. Being is seeing. Being is seeing in the human dimension. And what we see is highly interrelated to what we are. 

> The way we see the problem is the problem
>  
> — _7 habits of highly effective people_

This chapter is filled with a collection of mindsets that I have collected which have proven to be useful for myself and for others going through the miseries of heartbreak. These mindsets may help you view things in a different, more positive, light. 

Read through them individually and determine for yourself which ones resonate with you.

> The significant problems we face cannot be solved at the same level of thinking we were at when we created them.
> 
> — _Albert Einstein_