### Everything happens for a reason

I learnt this mindset from one of the first girls I dated after my breakup. This was approximately one and a half years after my breakup, but the pain was still noticeable. 

She too had gone through an impactful breakup and had found solace in the words: "Everything happens for a reason".

To me, initially, this sounded too spiritual, too religious to be compatible with my typical hard-science mindset. However, it very quickly grew on me.

Rather than viewing this statement as an admission of destiny, I began to view it instead as a way of accepting that I would be alright, no matter what. 

At some point my wounds would heal completely and I would be a better, stronger person because of it. "Everything happens for a reason" became a way of changing the way I saw the hardship I had been in. 

Rather than viewing it as a setback, or a temporary defeat, I began to view it as a pivotal moment in my life.

A good friend of mine came to a similar conclusion when his girlfriend — with whom he lived together — decided to break off the relationship and move out.

"Perhaps this had to happen to me", he would later tell me. I think he was right, and I think we both independently discovered the same powerful mindset. 

Said differently: What you're feeling is for the best. You might not realize it now, but this will turn you into a stronger, better person than you ever were before.

This breakup will become one of the most important things that will ever have happened to you.