### Don’t run away from your pain, go through it

In today’s modern Western societies we are not well equipped to deal with grief. Talking about our emotions, as men, is frowned upon and seen as a weakness. 

The alternative for many becomes running away from pain or repressing it as deeply as they possibly can.

The only true path to recovery, however, is through your pain.  

> When there is no way out, there is still a way through. So don’t turn away from the pain. Face it. Feel it fully. Feel it - don’t think about it! Express it if necessary, but don’t create a script in your mind around it. Give all your attention to the feeling not to the person, event or situation that seems to have caused it.
> 
> — _The Power of Now, Eckhart Tolle_

> So give your complete attention to what you feel, and refrain from mentally labeling it. As you go into the feeling be intensely alert. At first it may seem like a dark and terrifying place, and when the urge to turn away from it comes, observe it but don’t act on it. Keep putting your attention on the pain, keep feeling the grief, the fear, the dread, the loneliness, whatever it is. Stay alert, stay present - present with your whole Being, with every cell of your body. As you do so, you are bringing light into the darkness. This is the flame of your consciousness.
> 
> — _The Power of Now, Eckhart Tolle_

Experience and feel your pain as it was meant to be manifest itself through you.

The Tibetan Book of Living and Dying has a wonderful line in it.

> Whatever you do, don’t try to escape from your pain, but be with it. 

Because the attempt to escape from pain creates more pain.