
### My Tipping Point: A personal anecdote

I remember my tipping point very clearly. I was still in the protest phase. My ex-girlfriend was giving me mixed signals. Not pushing me away completely, but also definitely not welcoming me back. I felt mad, confused, sad and anxious, all at the same time. I’ve never cried so much in my life. 

But at some point, I realized that for her to behave in the way she did, she must really not be in love with me anymore. For the first time it dawned on that there was no point in me pursuing her, because clearly my feelings were no longer being reciprocated. There was no longer a point. In that moment I had reached my tipping point.

Reflecting back on my breakup, my memory isn't very clear. It was a tumultuous period of my life to say the least, but there is one event that I remember with absolute clarity: my tipping point.

My tipping point was truly the start of my recovery. Everything I had done before that was just me moving sideways.

Only once you've reached your tipping point, you're able to make a commitment to recovery. You will know it when you’ve reached it.

This tipping point will become a memorable moment in the timeline of your breakup. You may look back one day and realize that from that point forward, things started to change considerably.

A college friend of mine who’s girlfriend — seemingly suddenly —  left him, reached his tipping point when he asked himself: “Maybe this *had* to happen to me.”

From that point onward he began to see the breakup as a defining challenge in his life. One that he would undoubtedly survive and that would make him stronger.

My first client reached his tipping point after repeatedly hurting himself by obsessing over his ex-girlfriend until he realized: “No *one* person is worth this much pain.”

You will know when you reach your tipping point.