## Dealing with obsessive thoughts

> My gf just left me (2 months ago) for a another guy. We’ve been together for 7 years. I know that the breakup  is better for both of us, but it still hurts a lot. And i cant stop thinking about it 24/7 no matter what I do.
> Any advice?

Our brains are equipped with what can best be described as a movie theater. In it, mini movies are played continuously. This internal movie theater helped our ancestors survive by strengthening successful behaviors by repeating their neural firing patterns.

By simulating future events, our brains helped our ancestors prepare for different possible outcomes for a given set of circumstances.

Our brains haven’t fundamentally changed in the last 100,000 years. Your brain will also play mini movies, even though in today’s world they have little to do with your survival.

> By design these mini movies pull you out of the present moment. Upsetting events from the past will play again and again, strengthening the association between the experience and the corresponding feelings.
> - Buddha’s Brain

The mini movies tend to exaggerate reality and distort truths. In order to prepare you for the worst. Something may seem real in your mini movie, but have no basis in reality.

These mini movies try to teach you lessons which, quite often, aren’t all that relevant. These mini movies run hour after hour day after day, often continuing in your dreams.


### How to control your obsessive thoughts

You identify many of your triggers by asking yourself “What caused the thoughts?" Go through your journal and make a list of your triggers. 

Then, using your list as a guide, hide or throw away as many triggers as you can. These may include photographs, gifts, tapes etc. 


#### Exercise: Labeling obesessive thoughts

Try to separate your thoughts into two categories:

1. New
2. Old

Label your thoughts as “obsessive." They will never occur to you again without reminding you that they represent something self-defeating.


#### Exercise: Time limiting

Time limiting is a simple technique in which you give yourself permission, once a day, to give your obsessive thoughts free rein — but only for a specific amount of time. 

Find a quiet time for this exercise. For instance, right before you go to sleep. Then just lie down and let your obsessive thoughts fly. Make sure you have a stopwatch, clock, or timer nearby and that you keep careful track of the time. When your time runs out, tell your thoughts out loud to go away. 

On the first day of your emotional vacation, give your thoughts fourteen minutes. On the second day, give them thirteen minutes; on the third day, twelve; and so on. 


#### Exercise: Diverting your thoughts

You can divert your obsessive thoughts by engaging in activities that require concentration. When you begin having obsessive thoughts, force yourself to do something that requires you to shift your focus. Make sure the activity is easily available when you need it. 


#### Exercise: Pulverizing your obsessive thought

Picture your obsessive thoughts as a huge boulder crushing your hunched-over shoulders. Now imagine standing up straight to throw off your burden. Watch your boulder fall to the ground with a resounding crash. Feel the sense of relief as you stretch your muscles and appreciate how light you feel without your burden. 

Now look at your boulder and feel the rage a you realize how it has been weighing you down and making you ache. Imagine taking a giant sledgehammer to your boulder and smashing it to bits. With every blow, you release a little ore rage.  

When you’ve reduced the boulder to fragments, picture yourself collecting the fragments in a bucket. Take your bucket of fragments to a tropical island. As you wade into the surf, cast the remnants of what were once your obsessive thoughts into the sea. Watch the fragments sink down to the ocean floor and slowly decompose until they disappear into the sand.  

As the surf laps your ankles, feel the sun, smell the salt air, hear the seagulls, and enjoy the experience of triumph, relief, and freedom. You have overthrown your personal tyrant. 


#### Exercise: Exposure therapy

Extensive research around the world since the late 1960s on the use of “exposure therapy” for OCD has confirmed that repeated exposures of one to two hours at a time are highly effective in reducing obsessions in most sufferers. 

The principles of exposure therapy can be stated simply: 

Expose yourself to the thing that most triggers your fear or discomfort for one to two hours at a time, without leaving the situation, or doing anything else to distract or comfort you. 

If you continue to practice exposure and response prevention, your fears and compulsions will almost always decrease. 

After my second breakup I was again stricken with a fear of running into my ex-girlfriend’s new boyfriend. Following the principle of exposure therapy I wrote down the worst possible case scenario.

I would be in a public place, feeling self-conscious and weak and I would run into my ex with her new boyfriend. He would be absolutely jacked and confident. They would start talking to me but break out laughing as soon as I responded. I wouldn’t be able to talk and I would turn completely red as soon as they would come over.

The story was so over the top that it was scary, but also almost funny.

I then recorded the story on my phone and would replay it with headphones multiple times per day.

Very quickly the scenario lost its power over me. I began to see how ridiculous it was. Before I knew it, I felt I could handle the situation that I had feared so much before.