### Support Network

After a breakup it can be beneficial to be by yourself and reflect on yourself and your relationship. At the same time it can also be incredibly beneficial to spend time with friends and family.

We derive a great deal of solace from other people when we are feeling down [@MacDonald2005](). In addition, when we share our challenges with those who support us our painful feelings and memories get infused with comfort and the closeness you experience with the other person [@buddhasbrain]().

When we are bonded to people in a positive way, we feel better about ourselves and our lives. This capacity to bond plays a significant role in the tone and quality of our moods [@changebrainchangelife]().

Conversely, a lack of bonding and depression are often related. People who are depressed often do not feel like being around others and consequently isolate themselves. The social isolation tends to perpetuate itself: The more isolated a person becomes, the less bonding activity occurs. This worsens the depression and increases the likelihood of further isolation [@changebrainchangelife]().

Thus, in order to feel good, process our painful thoughts and emotions and avoid spiralling into depression you must build and  utilize a support network of people that are supportive of you. Both friends and family can be members of your support network.

Reaching out might involve getting disappointed. But this is a good opportunity to reassess your relationships and work on having healthier ones going forward.

Some friends and family members are better for support, others are better for distraction. You can use both!


#### Recruit Your Support network

1. Make a list of 3 family members that you could hang out with
2. Make a list of 5 friends that you can hang out with
3. Set up at least 3 “dates” with a friend of family member each week. If that seems like a lot, you definitely need to make sure you get to 3.

