#### Exercise: Re-imagining your ex

_This exercise is adapted from “I can mend your broken heart” by Paul McKenna[@icanmendyourbrokenheart]()_

Think about your ex now. As soon as you remember what someone looks like, you are using visualization. Recall what they looked like. What are they wearing? What is the expression on her face? What is she doing? Where is the picture of them located relative to you? Is it in front of you, or to the left or the right? Is it life size or smaller? Is it a movie or is it a still image? Is it solid or is it transparent? Do you hear their voice? Now, as you keep seeing them in your mind’s eye, notice the feelings that arise in you. Make a note of those feelings.

Now you could remember or imagine things differently. In your mind you can be the greatest ever film director. You can reshoot the scenes of your memory and imagination in any way you want. You can change the action, soundtrack, lighting, camera angles, framing, focus, speed - all the variables are up for grabs. 

So now let’s change how you are visualizing your ex and notice how it affects your feelings:

1. Bring to mind the picture you had of them
2. Notice where it appears and how big it is
3. Now drain the color out until it looks like an old black and white picture
4. Move the image further and further away until it is a tenth of its original size
5. Shrink it even further, right down to a little black dot
6. Notice how your feelings have changed and compare how you feel now to the note you made earlier

Changing the variables in a visualization changes the feelings it evokes Your body responds far more to the vivid use of imagination that to a simple command. In fact the human nervous system cannot tell the difference between a real and a vividly imagined experience. What you rehearse over and over again in your mind conditions you [@icanmendyourbrokenheart]().

