#### Exercise: Silent ridicule

_This exercise is adapted from “How to fall out of love” by Dr. Debora Phillips[@falloutoflove]()_

Laughter, or humor, is the best of all possible medicines for feeling depressed. It can give you the perspective and breathing room you need. The difficulty is that when you are feeling depressed, you don't laugh, particularly at yourself, your situation or at the person you love.

Thought-stopping helps you to think less about someone. Silent ridicule is a new technique that uses humor to help you think of him or her differently.

Thought-stopping will reduce the number of times you think of someone, but it won't make the reality of someone's presence go away.

Silent ridicule helps change your response to the person you love by changing the way you see that person. Instead of seeing them as you have in the past, you imagine them in an absurd, ridiculous, humorous scene.

Because ultimately, whether it is the result of the passage of more time or your own purposeful action, falling out of love means thinking about that person, not only less often, but also in a different way. [@falloutoflove]()

Silent ridicule, imagining your former love in an absurd or comic context so that you can laugh at them and see their flaws, is as easy to do as thought-stopping. Suppose you want to fall out of love with your ex-husband When you see him or talk to him or find that you are putting him on a pedestal, instantly imagine him in a ludicrous scene. That short-circuits your usual responses.

But the chances are you are somewhat reluctant to change your mind's pictures of him, even if you do suspect he enjoys rather special lighting effects in the theater of your mind. So the discovery of the right scene for the one you want to fall out of love with is usually preceded by a difficult search.

One important point is to be sure your scene is based on a foible or flaw or on an exaggeration of personality. You don't want your scene to evoke pity or the .feeling that you ought to rescue them. If you feel that, don't struggle to suppress it; forget the scene and try another one. What you are after is a good laugh, not more sympathy for that person.

First, scan his or her environment. Where would they look most absurd? Where are they most anxious to make a good impression?

Silent ridicule is particularly useful in snatching the power from domineering authority figures.

1. Design a scene in which the person you love looks, acts and/or talks absurdly.
2. Practice alone, evoking the scene three to five times a day.
3. Then, whenever you see, talk to, or hear of that person, or start putting them on a pedestal, bring on the scene. 



