
## Accepting your current situation

You might not be ready to start your recovery. Part of you might want to move on, but it might be just because you want to run away from the pain you’re facing. 

I can tell you, however, that you cannot move on by running away. You can keep running your whole life - and some people do - but if you truly want to move on, you have to *face* your pain.

What is facing your pain? Facing your pain starts with acknowledging where you are — the situation you are in right now. It won't be a pleasant situation, but that’s okay. It doesn’t matter where you start. All that matters is that you align your *perception* of where you are with the *reality* of where you are.

> A person must first deeply and honestly say: "I am what I am today because of the choices I made yesterday” before they can say: “I choose otherwise”
> — _7 Habits of Highly Effective People_

Before you continue reading this book, I want you to take a moment and close your eyes. I want you to breathe deeply and connect with the present moment. I want you to feel the pain you’re feeling, feel the weight of your past and see the situation you’re in for what it is.

I want you to realize that this situation, somehow, is the sum of the decisions you’ve made in the past. You may not have been conscious of each decision. You may not have had the capacity to decide otherwise. Regardless, you are here because as a result of those left and right turns on the road of life.

Say out loud:

“I accept that my current situation is the sum of all my past decisions. I accept the pain I am currently feeling and I accept that I cannot change the past.”

Good. Awesome to have you on board my friend!