### Guided reflection: Bringing RAIN to obsession

_The following guided reflection is adapted from “True Refuge” by Tara Brach [@truerefuge]()._

“Here is a practice for when obsessive thinking arises in the midst of a meditation, or when you are obsessing during daily activity and have the time to stop for a fuller investigation.
Sitting in a posture that allows you to be alert and relaxed, let your attention focus on whatever obsessive theme is appearing in your mind. If you have not already named it, find a few words as a mental label. It might be that you note “anxious about …” or “wanting so and so to …” or “judging …”
After naming the obsession, pause and let the whole experience of obsessing—the images and words, the reality that you’ve been obsessing, the mood surrounding obsessing—be as it is. You are not trying to fight obsessive thought; rather, you are recognizing what is and allowing it.
With curiosity and gentleness, begin to investigate what is going on inside you. As you attend to the theme of obsession—what you are worried about, what you are wanting—also bring your attention into where that fear or wanting lives in your body. Pay particular attention to your throat, chest, and belly—to the midline of your body. Where is your experience most distinct? What sensations do you notice (heat? pressure? tightness?)? What emotions are you aware of (fear? shame? anger?)?

“Continue to investigate by speaking directly to whatever experience feels most compelling. Ask that part of you, “What do you want from me? What do you most need?” Perhaps you are feeling fear, and the fear wants forgiveness for being there or wants to trust that you will pay attention to it. There might be a part of you that is craving food and wants to be soothed, to feel held in love. Listen with an intimate attention to what the emotional energies in your body are asking for under the obsessive thinking. 

As you listen to your wants and fears, watch for any words, images, or feelings that arise in response. Perhaps you will feel your heart soften with acceptance or care. Perhaps you will have an image of that vulnerable part of you filled with light or warmth, or feel that place being bathed in loving attention. No need to invent or force anything; simply sense any natural response you may have.

You might find that instead of a tender response, there is another wave of reactivity. Perhaps you’ll notice judgmental thoughts (“I don’t deserve love”) or fear (“Something really is wrong, this won’t help”). Whatever arises, recognize it and say yes, including it in your attention. As before, you can investigate by discovering how it expresses in your body and what it needs. Again, sense the possibility of offering it the tenderness, acceptance, or love it might want.

By continuing to investigate and offer a caring presence to the layers that make up obsessive thought, you are enlarging the awareness that heals and frees you. When you rest here, obsession will have less power to obscure who you really are.

