
### You are victim of the fundamental attribution error

The fundamental attribution error describes the human tendency to overvalue a person’s character and undervalue the person’s situation.

Imagine your friends bring an acquaintance to a party you attend. You’re not introduced and see him hanging around your friends, yet not talking to anyone.

You assume he must be a shy person, as he’s not interacting with anyone around him. 

Turns out he isn’t shy. He’s a friend visiting from abroad and just doesn’t speak English. Making it difficult for him to strike up conversation.

You attributed his behavior to his personality, because you did’t know his situation.

Turns out we do this all the time.

The same applies to relationships. 

When we’re in love with someone we think our love can be attributed mostly to the other person’s character. We underestimate the contribution attributable to the situation. The situation in this case being the fact you’re with someone — anyone — that loves you back.

The fact of the matter is, it feels incredibly good to be in any relationship where there is mutual affection. But how much of what we’re feeling can we attribute to that person’s character specifically and how much is just due to the fact we find ourselves in a relationship?

This is particularly pertinent question to ask in the case of someone's first love. Because of the *situation*, someone having not been in love before, they feel even more in love with the *person* than they would have otherwise.

Had they met the same person later on in life, perhaps after cutting their teeth on several relationships, they would not have attributed as much of the feelings to that specific person.

Does this mean that the feeling is not valid or not justified? No. But it does mean that it is not 100% attributable to the subject of your affection. Something we easily lose track of.