
### Your pain is rooted in old wounds you did not know about

Growing up as children we are constantly observing the world around us, absorbing it, and learning what lessons we need to learn to help us to prepare for the life that lies ahead.

So too with attachment. We look to our parents to teach us what love looks like and how to give and receive it.

What we learn at this time goes on to form an unconscious framework which determines how we love and who we fall in love with as adults.

If there was pain involved during your childhood lessons on love and attachment, you may now, as an adult, associate love with pain.

You may then seek out relationships that resemble what you learnt to be love, but in reality you’re also seeking out pain — because it’s all you know.

So too, when the relationship ends, you will not fall back on a cushion of self-acceptance and unconditional love, unless that’s the type of environment you grew up in.

Instead, you may feel scared and deeply hurt, as you did as a child. 

So in effect, a relationship breakup as an adult has brought back pain from your childhood you were not aware of.

One of my clients, Bob, was going through unbearable pain when his girlfriend disappeared from his life. It’s only when he realized how much of his pain had to do with unresolved grief from his past that he was able to make meaningful strides in his recovery.

> It is shocking to me how little this is about the girl, because I have discovered this is 80 percent on me for making her my higher power and letting her call the shots for us both. I was very aware she could not run her own life, but I sold myself out and look at the results.
> - Bob