
### You may be addicted to your ex-girlfriend

The dictionary definition of being addicted is being physically and mentally dependent on a particular substance. 

Typically we associate this condition with drug use, but doesn’t heartbreak display a physical and mental dependency as well?

As it turns out, love shares many symptoms of traditional addictions such as euphoria, craving, tolerance, emotional and physical dependence, withdrawal and relapse.

Helen Fisher from *Why We Love* agrees and describes love as a natural (and often positive) addiction. Fisher also points out that all addictions are associated with elevated levels of dopamine. 

> Dopamine involvement may even explain why love-stricken men and women become so dependent on their romantic relationship and why they crave emotional union with their beloved. Dependency and craving are symptoms of addiction. 
> 
> Is romantic love an addiction? Yes; I think it is--a blissful dependency when one’s love is returned, a painful, sorrowful, and often destructive craving when one’s love is spurned. [@whywelove]()

Most of us become preoccupied by thoughts and fantasies of our new lover at the beginning of a relationship. We all disrupt our lives and spend as much time as possible with her. As long as it’s temporary and reciprocal this mild form of obsession is perfectly normal and part of Nature’s design for love. 

When the love is not returned, however, the addiction turns negative which, among other things, can lead to depression. In addition, like an addiction, the physical and emotional dependencies as well as the withdrawal effects make it difficult to break.

