## Managing emotions

Imagine your emotions as the steam in a kettle whistling on a stove. The steam is extremely hot, energetic and would like to escape from the confines of the kettle.

During your relationship you never really noticed the kettle and it never really affected you much. But now after the breakup the kettle suddenly comes into focus. It is full of boiling water generating steam wanting to escape.

Due to the amount of boiling water, the pressure is untenable and steam inexorably forces its way through the tout of the kettle. As the steam escapes from the kettle it makes a loud whistling sound. This is analogous to your emotions coming to the foreground.

Your job is to manage the steam’s orderly escape from the kettle. Ideally you would like to let your kettle whistle when you’re ready for it to do so, and be able to silence it, when it you’re not. 

The stove remains hot, however. The stove represents contact with your ex. If you keep engaging her, the stove remains on, and steam continues to build up. Your first step is turning off the stove. You must break off contact with your ex.

The stove may be off, but it is still hot. Turning it off didn’t  make all its heat disappear. As the stove cools down it will continue to transfer whatever heat it has to the kettle. The water in the kettle will continue to generate steam, but this process will now slowly come to a halt.

Going no contact still leaves you with a range of emotions that you are going to have to deal with. The intensity of these emotions, like the steam, will wane with time as long as you keep the stove off. As long as you stick to no contact.

Managing your emotions is akin to pressure management in your kettle.

Keeping the kettle closed will result in a steam build up which, at some undetermined point in time, will burst its way too freedom. If you bottle up your emotions indefinitely, they will find a way out, without you being able to predict when.

As I said before. You would like to let your kettle whistle when you’re ready for it to do so, and be able to silence it, when it you’re not. 

Put differently, there is a time to grieve, and there is a time not to grieve. Grieving is opening the kettle. Choosing not to grieve is closing the kettle temporarily.

Leaving the kettle closed throughout the day might lead it to let out steam during the night as suppressing thoughts and traumatic events often leads to them resurfacing in your dreams.

The powerful lesson here is that once you are aware of the kettle of steam as an analogy for your emotions and you have practiced opening and closing it at your discretion, it will become a tool you can use for the rest of your life.