### I broke the no contact rule, now what?

The first thing you need to ask yourself is: “How did the no contact rule get broken?” Did you let it get broken? Were you in fact disconnected from your ex girlfriend in all possible ways? Or was it easy for her to get in touch with you or send you a little text?

Even if it is your fault, you need to forgive yourself. You can’t change the current reality, so you must accept it, and re-initiate no contact. Make sure it’s fool proof this time. It’s best to delete her number, remove her from Facebook and avoid ‘slippery’ activities such as viewing her Facebook friends.

From Tom:

> During NC I was doing well. Improving myself, going to the gym, running, swimming, meeting friends, going on dates and I was feeling great.
> 
> So after about 45 days of NC, I sent her a reminder txt of good times….No reply. I week or so later I sent her a txt wishing her well and asking if anything got sorted with our deposit situation on the flat we shared. Again no reply until about a week later – 3rd feb, she got back to me wishing me well and telling me everything had been sorted.
> 
> I then noticed on Facebook that it looked like she had started seeing someone so I phoned her about it and we chatted ok for a while. I then txt her asking if the guy she met was the same one who she met back in October when we initially broke up. She txt me back quite angry telling me to move on, she had moved on and she had been with this guy since the 30th Dec, they hadn’t spent a day apart, were planning their future together and she has never been happier. She ended it saying she doesn’t want to hear from me at all, ever again!!

I know it’s tempting. Don’t do it. If you do, forgive yourself, and don’t do it again.

#### Exercise: Add lessons to your journal

Write down any lesson you can draw from breaking no contact in your journal to help you avoid the same mistake in the future.