
## Choosing to recover

> Until one is committed, there is hesitancy, the chance to draw back, always ineffectiveness. 
> Concerning all acts of initiative (and creation), there is one elementary truth the ignorance of which kills countless ideas and splendid plans: that the moment one definitely commits oneself, the providence moves too. 
> A whole stream of events issues from the decision, raising in one’s favor all manner of unforeseen incidents, meetings and material assistance, which no man could have dreamt would have come his way.  
> - _William Hutchinson Murray_


> At the moment of commitment the entire universe conspires to assist you
> - _Goethe_

Something happens when you make a conscious decision and really tell yourself that you are committing to it. It’s like the universe bends its way around you as to accommodate your decision.

Looking back at my recovery, I tried to “start” multiple times. There was more than one instance where I tried to switch some kind of knob in my head and forcefully open the supposed next chapter in my life.

Needless to say it didn’t work. I didn’t believe it. I didn’t want to move on. Part of me did not want to chase my ex-girlfriend, but part of me did - and that part was stronger.

Only after reaching my tipping point was I able to commit to recovery and truly *choose* to recover.


#### Exercise: Drawing the line

I want you to stand up and draw an imaginary line in front of you. You will be stepping over this line in a minute and doing so represents making the commitment to recover.

But first, I want you to take a deep breath and meditate briefly on what this commitment means to you. I want you to allow yourself to feel the gravity of this situation. Your entire body needs to be aware that by stepping over that line you are making a truthful and binding commitment to yourself.

Be very aware that no one but _you_ will be able to hold you to this commitment.

Before you step across the line, read the commitment statement below out loud. Feel free to personalize it to feel more true to yourself.

“I cannot change the past and I cannot make the pain disappear. However, I choose not to continue to suffer. I choose to recover.

I hereby commit to doing whatever it takes to recover from my breakup. No one person is worth this pain.”

Then, when you’re ready to commit, step across the line.

How do you feel? You should feel more clear, but if you feel no noticeable difference right now, that’s also fine, it may come later for you.


#### Exercise: Start your journal

Get a journal, you’ll be needing it throughout this book, and write you commitment statement down at the very beginning. It may be helpful for you to read this statement every morning when you wake up.