
### It feels like she's the one

She will feel like the one. This will feel like an indisputable truth.

But is it?

Let’s look at it differently.

As humans our behavior is guided by our emotions, sensations and thoughts.

Take hunger as an example. When we’re hungry, we feel discomfort. This discomfort motivates us to eat. Eating removes the discomfort and makes us feel good. Nature guides us towards eating by making “not-eating” uncomfortable and by making “eating” feel good.

Now imagine you have mother Nature’s box of tricks at your disposal and you need to guide a human - let’s call him “A” - towards passing on his genes to next generations.

Prerequisites to achieving this goal are (1) survival and (2) reproduction. 

So you would want Mr. A to experience good feelings for (a) surviving and (b) reproducing and bad feelings for anything that endangers the odds of achieving (a) and (b).

It should make sense then that anything that threatens your life generally feels scary or painful (bad) as does anything that threatens your odds of reproducing. It is simply Nature’s way of guiding your behavior towards survival and reproductive success.

Survival and reproduction are prerequisites to passing our genes on to next generations. It turns out we can increase our odds by doing more than just reproducing. By entering into a longer-term relationship with a partner, a man and a woman can rear their child together. 

Rearing a child together, rather than alone, would increase its odds of surviving thereby increasing the odds of the parental genes being passed down another generation.

So… Because it improves the odds of your genes being passed down to next generations, Nature will want to guide you towards forming a close relationship with someone and rearing a child together.

What would we want to make Mr. A feel in order to guide him towards this behavior?

We could make him _want_ to form a close relationship with a woman.

We would make the relationship feel incredibly good to him, and any make any threat to losing that relationship incredibly scary and painful. 





What would you make A think and feel?

You may want to make A feel amazingly good when he is with person B and make them intensely miss B when they’re not.

If A is at risk of losing person B you would make him feel very alarmed. You would fixate his thoughts and attention exclusively on B. And you would make A associate losing B with the most intense feelings of pain you can make him feel. 

One could imagine that the most potent way of driving A in the arms of B would be to make A feel as if B is the only possible person in the world A can ever be happy with and no other person could possibly compare.

Irrespective of it being true or not - if you can make A _think_ and _feel_  B is “the one” and convince him it’s the truth, it would surely drive A into the arms of B.
  
You see, feeling as if someone is “the one” is Nature’s most potent potion - her most convincing trick - to make you stay with another person.

Fundamentally it’s a feeling disguised as a truth.

It is real, but not true.

What Nature tells us isn’t always right. We need to realize that the operating system which Nature has equipped us with is over 100,000 years old and hasn’t had an update since.

And when we can’t update our operating system we do the only logical thing we can do. 

We slap a post-it onto the monitor saying:

Caution. Operating system not updated in 100,000 years. May generate feelings of “she is the one”. Feeling are real, but not true.