#### Exercise: Falling out of love

_This exercise is adapted from “I can mend your broken heart” by Paul McKenna [@icanmendyourbrokenheart]()_

1. Recall five times you felt very in love with your ex and make a list of them, so you can easily call them to mind in a moment.
2. Start to recall the first memory again, then step out of it and move the image of that event away from you so that you can see yourself in the picture. Move the image away until it is small and the emotional intensity is reduced.
3. Drain out the color so that it is black and white then make it transparent. When you look at the event like this it will seem like it is happening to someone else and the emotional intensity will be further reduced. By changing these variables you are recoding the memory.
4. When you’ve finished recoding the first memory, do the same with the next memory.
5. Work through them all until you have done all five
6. Next, spend some time remembering in detail five negative experiences with your ex-partner, where you felt very definitely unattracted to them. Think of the times when they did something that really hurt you, turned you off or offended you. Find five and make a list of them so you can easily call them to mind.
7. Now take the least appealing memory and fully return to that moment. Go back and run through it all over again. Step into the memory so that you are seeing the things you saw, hearing the things you heard and fully feeling the things you felt all over again.
8. Now turn up the color and the clarity. Make the memory as bright and clear as you can and feel the feelings getting stronger and stronger.
9. Go through each of the other four memories of when you were not attracted to your ex-partner, and step into them, seeing what you saw, hearing what you heard and feeling how you felt. Carry on until you feel you have had quite enough of them and even the idea of thinking about them is totally unattractive.

