### Why she’s sending mixed signals

Right before and right after a breakup communication often breaks down. It’s hard to understand our ex because, frankly, a lot of the time she stops making sense. 

Guys have shared stories with me where their exes would say contradicting things or have no reasonable explanation for their behavior. What’s going on?

I’ve identified some factors I believe play a role in this:

1. We have a natural tendency to want to keep relations intact and functioning. There was no evolutionary benefit to disrupting relationships. If your girlfriend’s love for you has died, she may want to become available again sexually yet not want to destroy her relationship with you in the process. The result is mixed signals.
2. Love doesn’t go from “in love” to indifference. Love is a combination of various modalities. If she says she loves you but is not “in love” with you, she probably lost romantic love for you, but she still feels affection for you. She may want to keep the affectionate relationship she has with you but forego the sexual one. Again, the result is mixed signals.
3. She is unable to articulate what she’s feeling. If you’re not emotionally aware and not familiar with the nuances of the modalities of love it’s impossible to articulate what’s going on.
4. She’s afraid to hurt you. So she may be too afraid to tell you the stone cold truth in your face.

When you are unable to make sense of what your ex is telling you, consider just looking at her actions and forgetting about her words.

Our actions often tell a more honest, clearer story than the story we confabulate with our words. If you forget about your ex’s words, what do her actions tell you?
